So in the last lecture we added this author info box and then we said why don't we add an option
to show or hide
this box in the Customizer.
So let's go back now to customize.php. And let's add a new section in the Customizer that is called
Single Settings.
So I'll only just copy a section and let's call it "single_blog_options".
And a title.
And now let's add a new setting. So "$wp_customize"
and "add_setting" and then ID. So, "_themename_" and let's call it "display_author_info".
And an array of options.
So we have a default value.
And let's say it will be "true". And we'll have to sanitize the values so "sanitize_callback".
So let's write a custom function for this one.
This will either be "true" or "false".
Any other value will be invalid. So let's write a function that will do that.
So "_themename_sanitize_checkbox". And then let's define this function maybe
here. And this will get the value as an argument.
So let's call it $checked.
And it will return either "true" or "false".
So we have a condition here, a ternary operator. And if this condition is "true" we'll return "true".
Otherwise we will return "false".
So what do we put in this condition.
We'll have to check that this variable exists or isset()
and also that it's "true".
And if so we'll return "true".
Otherwise if this value is not set or it's anything a string or any other thing other than "true", we
will return "false".
So that will be fine for sanitizing the checkbox.
Let's also add the controls for this setting.
And it will have the same ID.
And now in the "type" we will give it a "checkbox" type and let's give it a "label". Escaped and translated of course.
Let's call it "Show Author Info"
and text domain.
And finally we need to define a section that this control will appear in. And in our case we just created
a section for the single options.
So let's add this one.
And I think that will be fine.
So let's go now to the Customizer. And remember anything we do in the Customizer we must
change the port to 8888. And let's go to the Single Blog Options. And we now have the checkbox.
So let's use the value to show and hide this box here.
So let's go to single.php and just add an if condition here before the get_template_part().
If this option is true which means the checkbox is checked then we will get the template part.
Otherwise we will do nothing.
So to get the options we use get_theme_mod and the name of this setting which was this one. And a default value
which is "true".
And that's it.
So let's see now.
And as you can see it disappears when we uncheck the box.
So let's do a couple of improvements.
So of course as you notice we refresh the whole iframe now. So we will take care of this in a moment.
But let's first add a new option that we haven't mentioned in the Customizer section. And this option
will allow you to show or hide these sections depending on a certain condition.
So back to the customize.php.
And let's go to the section that we just created. And let's add another option called "active_callback".
And this will take a function name or a function.
And if this function returns "true" the section will appear and otherwise this section won't appear. So let's
name the function and then we will explain more in a moment.
So "_themename_show_single_blog_section".
So let's just comment this for a moment. And what I mean is we only need this section to appear if we are
in the single page here. But let's say we are on a page or on the archive
maybe we need this.
We don't need this section to appear. It will be useless.
It will change nothing in this page.
So this might be a nice feature to add.
So let's add this function now.
So what do we need to check here?
We can just return the output of is_single(), right?
So if you go back now to the Customizer.
And we have this setting because we are in a single page.
But let's go to another page.
And as you can see it disappears. But there is also one more thing we need to check.
We need to check the post type.
So in our function we return is_single(), but we only need this section to appear only for a single blog
post.
So in the future when we create custom post types so let's say we have a portfolio and you add portfolio
items and this portfolio is a custom post type.
So when you add the portfolio items and you are in a portfolio item page is_single() will return "true"
because it's a single post type.
So is_single() works for any post type except pages
and I think attachments. So we'll also need to check that post type of this post is a post, right? And not any other custom post
type.
So you can access the global $post which is the current post.
And then add another condition here. So "$post->post_type === 'post'". So we don't have any custom post
types so we can't check if this is working. But we will have a section about custom post types so
we can check this later.
So right now it's appearing in the single blog and anywhere else it's not appearing.
So let's go back to a single blog. And now we need to tackle the issue of
refreshing the whole iframe. And we already know how to do that, right?
So let's add "transport" in the setting.
And "postMessage".
And you already know that we can either write JavaScript callbacks or use partials. And in this case
I think partials will be unnecessary.
We can just use JavaScript callbacks and show or hide this box depending on the value of this setting.
Right?
We don't have any PHP duplication issues here.
So I think JavaScript will be fine.
So let's go to src/assets and the customize-preview file.
And let's add another one.
It is and we need this setting.
So what do we need to do here?
Let's first "console.log(to) to make sure this callback is working. And let's open the console and refresh.
And let's "Single Blog Options".
Sorry.
So in the Single Blog Options check and uncheck.
And returned "true" or "false" depending on if the check box is checked or not.
So we can check with an if condition.
And if "true" if it's checked we can get this item which is "c-post-author". And use jQuery
to select it. And use ".show()".
Ok, otherwise
do the same thing except that we will "hide()" instead of "show()".
So let's close this and refresh.
And now
it's updated almost instantly with JavaScript and we didn't have to do a lot of duplication or anything.
So this example is where JavaScript will be useful otherwise if you find yourself duplicating a lot
of PHP codes just code with the partials options.
Great, so let's carry on with our single blog.
And now we need to add, after the single blog we need to add next and previous posts to navigate through
the posts in the single page.
So see you in the next lecture.